let's remember fashion what fascism is
fascism is when the business and
government coalesce to further the
interests of business and government not
the interests of the people so what's
the quotation false opinions rarely do
any damage because everyone enjoys
refuting them but false facts can be
highly injurious because they last long
right and similarly there's another line
there's another line that the problem
with with a lie or misrepresentation
isn't the extent to which it's contrary
to the truth the problem is the extent
to which it resembles the truth and then
passes by you know as as a for me yeah I
mean lies that are ridiculous or
outrageous lies such as Donald Trump
might tell you or not the problem is I
mean the reason I'm making this video is
that Jimmy Dore fellow fellow political
commentator here on YouTube a colleague
of mine in fact what do you think about
Jimmy Dore
he uses this line of reasoning on
fascism all the time and it's false I
mean he completely means well he's not
trying to deceive anyone but this is a
really really misleading statement about
about fascism so I got a comment not too
long ago asking me
aisel why are you always criticizing
communism and the far left and and much
more rarely am i using examples you know
such as world war two the nazis well
sorry world war two but specifically
Nazis and fascism and I wrote back
saying you know honestly the lessons to
be learned from the critique of the far
left I still really think are meaningful
and important and applicable in a lot of
our our political problems today mmm
you know when I look at the mix of
motivations and what people were trying
to achieve and the particular ideals
involved wanting to help the poor want
to have a society based on equality
wanting to address certain types of
justice and injustice even you know
workplace ethics
how do you organize a union how do you
how do you organize your placement how
do you deal with the gap between rich
and poor there are a lot of thematic
concerns communism raises that are still
really meaningful in people's everyday
lives and when I look at the footage of
that rally that unite unite the right
rally in Charlotte VA Charlotte oh sorry
Charlottesville that's that's be here
for my sweet thank you God Willis
off-camera
Charlottesville not Charlotte Charles Oh
Virginia is filming in Canada born and
raised in Canada people all right yeah
okay so hmm the footage of that I mean
sorry if you see the footage there were
three different rallies and one of them
is overtly KKK people and one of them is
overtly neo-nazi people I mean it's it's
just laughable they're engaged in a
political discourse then this sense I
think has no applicable or incredibly
little applicability to serious
political problems people are still are
still wrestling with today so this comes
up less often on my channel you know we
study history not for what it can
subtract from the past but for what it
adds to the present I mean that's why
these things come up and you know look
also even when you do have something in
parallel so to give an example the Nazis
the fascists in the mid 20th century
they engaged in ethnic cleansing of a
very dirac direct and overt form they
massacred people they engaged in a mass
murder indirect way Joseph Stalin how
did he deal with the cats K ETS the cats
are one of many indigenous peoples
within the Soviet Union he dealt with
them it's shocking how similar it has he
deal with him in almost exactly the same
way that Canada was dealing with its own
indigenous people at that time not with
gas chambers but with a system of forced
assimilation separating children from
their families through you know making
them into orphans and adopting them
forcing them to learn a new language
forced them to give up their religion
and culture it was a kind of slow-motion
genocide and forced into an integration
program I've also done some research on
it
as peoples of Sakhalin Island the
furthest east you know fringes of the
Soviet empire where you know how native
people would appreciate that sign when
you study the what it did that was so
terrible there are useful parallels
there are lessons to be learned that
apply to what we were doing wrong in the
West in the same period of time you know
really directly whereas in some ways the
evils of fascism are just just that
little bit more outlandish where it's
not easy to look at you know Treblinka
the Treblinka was one of the death camps
and see right away the parallels to the
type of slow-motion genocide that the
candidate was involved in whereas a lot
of those left-wing regimes did engage in
modes of repression forced assimilation
slow-motion genocide that that we really
should examine and we should examine our
own record and so on - so that's why I
engage you so much
Christon doing now the other thing is I
think everyone knows this but there were
a lot of kind of memes about this like
oh the minute someone mentions they
don't fit learn well like that the
discussion is over as soon as you start
making comparisons to the Nazis you know
the conversation is kind of dart on the
toilet so I'm also against the sort of
Lee's lazily invoking you know the
memory of fascism and II don't Hitler to
prove a point but that's not cheap
Nora's problem what Jimmy Dore does is
that he really fundamentally
misidentifies or incorrectly defines
fascism let's remember fashion what
fascism is fascism is when the business
and government coalesce I mean does this
again and again and again he doesn't no
way that's plausible enough that I'm
concerned it will kind of influence
people in the next generation as he says
in this in this clip and not the first
time ever and say it I don't know if
I've heard him say it over a dozen times
I think he considers to be fascism the
integration of pardon me private sector
and and government right now there's
actually a totally different term for
that school of thought and it's it's
neither left-wing or right-wing or
neither so it's syndicalism so
syndicalism yeah my girlfriend's just
looking to write syndicalism is one of
the most important political
philosophies of the 20th century that
did not make it into the 21st century
that's significant in its way right see
here but someone who was a famous author
for 20 or 30 years and then totally
forgotten you know there's some
interesting story there syndicalism made
it big and syndicalism I mean you know
to dumb it down a bit this is a period
of time when a lot of people were
enthusiastic about labor unions and a
lot of people were enthusiastic about
the workers taking over the means of
production so some of those people were
left-wing some of those people were
nationalists or sometimes even you know
right-wing or fascists there was nothing
inherently left-wing or even liberal
about the idea that the workers could
take over the factory and that's itself
the lesson worth learning you know the
world could have paid more attention to
that so syndicalism in general was was
the the philosophy and there were
several different leaders of it several
different schools of thought within it
the the most important by far I think is
George Sorrell and I have read primary
source of sure Sorrell so this is from
memory but after your Sorel died as I
recall
both the fascists and the Communists
offered to build a monument for his tomb
to put up some kind of statue or pillow
or something to commemorate him so both
the left and the right were interested
in claiming his legacy but if you were
to ask why what why did syndicalism why
was it such a big deal in the 20th
century and then you know was it was of
no interest in the 21st century I think
part of the reason is that it was
discredited by its flirtation with
fascism or fascism flirtation with it
whichever you want to look at it and
also the the other philosophy that it
was really socially with was was
anarchism and people still use the term
anarcho-syndicalism and you know the
results were not promising you can still
to this day meet people on the internet
who will absolutely swear that for a
period of three years and echoes
anarcho-syndicalism in Spain and
Catalonia operated a couple factories
and it wasn't so bad and so on and so
forth there are people who will go to
their graves saying that
anarcho-syndicalism is a
a way to reorganize society but what it
comes down to it what jimmy dore is
criticizing here as as fascism is not
fascism it's the related important and
separate economic improved political
philosophy of syndicalism and quite
possibly it's specifically sur le and
syndicalism that you can look it up
there a couple other schools and cynical
ISM and today everyone's forgotten about
it and nobody doesn't matter uh fascism
right so I was actually now return to
the book to the library I was gonna show
on camera you know that the symbol of
fascism there was understanding what
fascism is partly to find I had a copy
here of cicero's the Republic and on the
cover of that on both sides of the title
there was a very peculiar symbol and
that symbol was the belt that the
fashions of ancient Rome bound up in a
bound up with a leather cord I believe
right and this is the same symbol that's
used on the the fascist flag of Italy
and mutatis mutandis with with with
variations the fascists in Spain other
countries all all claim this symbol this
symbol and even the word fascism comes
from comes from the fasces these were
the rods that were carried by basically
aristocrats in Rome walk especially when
walking to the Senate and there were
rods that be carried in front of them
and anyone who got in their way could be
beaten with them now you know what what
a lovely symbol for pi Oh pickle the
rods used to be people but the idea was
that when these aristocrats met at the
meeting they would each set down their
rod and we bound together in a bundle
representing with the men inside we're
not going to raise arms against each
other while though the meeting
progressed so the other thing was
striking me I didn't know this until I
read Cicero I always just thought okay
so the rod was meant to be people and
that's the end of the story but no
within the history of Rome it was
actually seen as progress when the
aristocrats stopped carrying axes when
they took the axe heads off the axes and
just went out with roughly the rod was a
was a less violent alternative to the
earlier symbol
there I don't know privilege and power
which was going around with an accident
I don't even think is that the men would
care cells their slaves or their
servants of their guards will be walking
ahead of them holding an axe or or a rod
wouldn't wouldn't stave so look
understanding what fascism really is and
where it came from historically for me
was difficult because they were really
we talked with us off-camera a couple
days ago a really interesting example of
bias in education my education about
World War two in the 20th century was
totally focused on Germany it was
specifically the history of fascism in
Germany and if you only study that
you'll really never understand what
fascism was or what it is because the
origins of fascism in Europe are almost
uniquely Italian so something everyone
knows is that the word Nazi is a
contraction of National Socialists
though most people don't know is how is
it that the term socialist came to be
combined with nationalist and not to
mean a left-wing group but to mean an
extreme right-wing group and the the
ideology that the sequence of events to
understand you absolutely must study
Italy it's specifically uniquely under
the conditions in Italy basically there
there were many socialists who were
genuinely at the start of this story
were genuinely left-wing socialist
socialists in the same sense that that
we used the word today but during World
War one so World War one in case you
don't know was an unpopular war
especially for people that weren't
winning it but the body count was
incredibly high during World War one
broadly speaking the left was anti-war
critical of the war especially as the
war as the years went by as the body
count piled up so within Italy there
were socialists and at least at the
start of the story I think they probably
were sincere socialists they were
socialists who want to identify
themselves as pro war as nationalists
and this was the origin of the term
National Socialist and there was the
unique and bizarre historical figure of
his political career is really
impossible to summarize of Mussolini
and Mussolini made the switch from being
I think not just a socialist but a
communist he went from being a far left
demagogue to being a an extreme right
demagogue and indeed he did we now have
the archival research publish people
didn't know but we actually know exactly
when he first became anti-semitic when
he first took on other other aspects of
fascism
you know properly called he had very
different you know perspectives on
politics and other in other periods of
his life so I just say understanding
what fascism really was and what it
really is um you know nobody in my
education system was trying to lie to me
about this it wasn't like the Canadian
public school board wanted to mislead me
but I think there's a real sense of
discomfort well I grew up around a lot
of Italians I'm very sorry where I was
intended wrong with a lot of Italians
you know new immigrants as well as as a
whole community and so on
there's there was a real reluctance I
think to make the Italians into the
villains of World War two I think there
was a real reluctance to trace the
origins of fascist ideology to Italy but
it surely is utterly and ineluctably is
does originate in Italy and it
originates in a unique you know set a
political circumstances sure just like
in where do our terms left left-wing and
right-wing come from it's worth
understanding in the French Revolution
after version creating the first problem
in France and so on revolution from all
these unique conditions and using unique
associations for the terms that then
lasted you know centuries thereafter
they've been they've been tremendously
long-standing their influence has been
tremendous long-standing in the same way
that were really unique and bizarre
political conditions in Italy during
World War one that then shaped the
emergence of fascism proper in the
interwar years and that in turn shaped
the history of Germany and and shaped
history of the world and that is how
we've ended up with this I mean the
literal symbol of the fasces of the rod
and this very eclectic mix of ideas that
don't seem to naturally fall together I
mean you know eugenics racism but indeed
as jimmy dore mentions syndicate
isn't is an aspect of it you know the
aspect of shall we say removing the
intermediaries dis removing the barriers
between government and industry whether
you think of that as government taking
over industry or the workers taking over
industry or what-have-you there are
definitely different schools of thought
in that this eclectic mix of ideas and
really a set of excuses of convenience
ultimately for how it was the people
like Mussolini ended up crossing the
aisle and going from the extreme left
wing to the extreme right wing and at
that time remember they would be taking
over the right wing from what had been
traditional monarchists traditional
Christians and Catholics people who were
traditionally hysterically
anti-communist and these were really
people taking ideas from left-wing
syndicates communism and socialism and
bringing in bringing them into the right
wing as as never before and transformed
the history of the Western world
before okay so shout out to Jimmy Dore
as Jimmy Dore always likes to say he's
just a nightclub performer he doesn't
research on these things every so often
somebody asked him a question about
Marxism and he says hey look you know
he's just a nightclub performer and this
is I think an example of lazy thinking
that's kind of crept into his act
[Music]